# SFA DotNet - Assignment 6

## Implement Unit Tests (1 Week)

## 1. Assignment Goals
Your assignment is to test the code you have already created during Midterm 1.

Sunny day tests or happy path is when you test whether your code is working properly when the correct data is supplied.
Rainy days tests or unhappy path is when you supply false or incorrect data to your software.
Keep in mind that you should not test the language constructions or the established connection to a database.
What you are expected to test is the result generated by your method.
Ex.:
What will happen if you supply an empty list or array to method?
What will be the behavior if you supply wrong data?
What will be the behavior if you supply nulls?
What if the returned data is not correct?

You should test edge cases like if the range you can enter is between 0 and 7 what will be the output if you provide 8 for example?

Add some negative conditions.

Have the values you expect in your array been filled correctly?

If the method accepts a length for the array, what if you pass in a negative number or a int.

What your method returns:
If the return value is not null.
If the returned collection is not empty.
If the returned collection is modifiable/unmodifiable.
If the returned collection is sorted.
If the returned collection contains all expected values.
If the method throws an exception.

You need to test the business logic and you should get the expected values as defined in the Specs.

## 2. Assignment Description

### 2.1 Required Tasks
Implement at least 15 proper unit tests.
You can implement more than 15 in order to increase your chance to get more points if some of your tests are considered pointless.
Your unit tests should only test the System Under Test all dependencies should be mocked in order to achieve isolation.

### 2.2. Extra Credit
Achieve 80% code coverage.

## 3. Assignment Grading
In all the assignments, writing quality code that builds without warnings or errors, and then testing the resulting application and iterating until it functions properly is the goal. Here are the most common reasons assignments receive low points:
- Project does not build.
- One or more items in the Required functionalities section was not satisfied.
- A fundamental concept was not understood.
- Project does not build without warnings.
- Code Quality - Your solution is difficult (or impossible) for someone reading the code to understand due to: 
- Code is visually sloppy and hard to read (e.g. indentation is not consistent, etc.).
- No meaningful variable, method and class names 
- Not following C# code style guides 
- Over/under used methods, classes, variables, data structures or code comments.
- Assignment is not submitted as per Assignment Submission section below.


## 4. Assignment Submission

You already have access to your personal ScaleFocus Academy repositories in GitLab. Every Assignment is submitted in a separate folder in that repo, on your master branch. Every folder is named by the assignment name and number -ex: Final Exam.

Here is a sample structure of how your master branch of your repo should look like towards the end of your SFA training:
```
.
├── Assignment 1
├── Assignment 2  
├── Assignment 3
├── Assignment 4
├── Midterm 1
├── Assignment 5
├── Midterm 2
├── Assignemtn 6
├──  └── Workforce-management
├──          └── README.md
├──          └── src
├──              └── WorkforceManagement.sln
├──              └── ConsoleApp
├──                  └── ConsoleApp.csproj
├──                  └── Program.cs
├──                  └── ...
├──              └── ClassLibrary
├──                  └── LibraryClass.cs
├──                  └── ...
├──          └── ...

...
```
Assignments that have not been submitted to the master branch or have incorrect folder structure will not be graded.

<small>How to use Git to submit your assignments for review?<small>

> ⚠️ Make sure you have read the GitLab Reading Materials first, available here.

Let's imagine that the first required task from your assignment is to create a Login View in your project:

1. Make sure you have the latest version of your code;

2. Open a bash terminal (CMD for Windows) in your Assignment folder or navigate there with cd Assignment-1/

3. Create a new branch for the feature you're developing git checkout -b login View, where login Views the name of your new branch.

4. Now you need to add all the file you have changed. You can use git add .when you want to add all files in the current folder. Or use git add file.txt you can define specific files you want to push to yor remote repo.

5. Your next step is to commit the changes you have made. You need to use git commit -m "add README" where the message must be meaningful and is describe the exact reason for change;

6. The last step you need to perform is to push your changes to the remote repo by git push -u origin loginView. Pay close attention that master is your main branch and you are not committing to it directly. Pushes are done ONLY against feature branches(branches other than master)!

7. Create a Merge Request and assign your Tutor to it -Open GitLab and navigate to Merge Requests> Create new Merge Request and select your feature branch login Views source and master as target/destination.

8. Your Tutor/Mentor will now review your code. If you have merge request comments, you will need to resolve them before proceeding: 
		
  * Up vote or write something under the comment, acknowledging that you agree with the comment. If there is something you don't understand, now is your time to discuss it by writing under this comment.
  * If everything is clear with the comment, go back to your source code. Make sure you're on your branch, by calling git checkout loginView
  * Do work here that resolves comments
  * Commit as usual(check above).
  * The merge request will be updated with the new code, so your Tutor/Mentor will see your new changes. If there are additional Merge Request comments repeat step 
	
9. When done with all changes you will be allowed to merge your branch with the master branch. Do not forget to mark the branch to be deleted after the merge. Keep in mind that all versions of your code are kept in git and you don't need the branches in your repo.
